# Yelp-Business-Comparison
Business ratings on Yelp can give a user an idea of the overall quality of a business and individual ratings can give further detail. Every person may value different things in a business that can be hard to quantify. Using data analysis of the vast amount of user data available on yelp we can find identify underlying similarities of businesses. I propose to find these similarities by correlating ratings across unique reviews. To compare a pair of businesses we can find sets of users that have reviewed both and see how their ratings compare. To accomplish this I scraped yelp to obtain lists of usernames and ratings for restaurants that appear when searching for sandwiches near Santa Clara, CA, using the ScrapeYelp.py script (warning it may get your IP address banned from yelp!). Each rating is scaled to the range -2 to 2 and a rating vector for each restaurant is normalized. Cosine similarities of ratings vectors for each pair of restaurants is then calculated using CompareBusinesses.py. Two plots are produced to explore the results. These results could be used to recommend new businesses based on a current users ratings. The information could also be useful to help target advertisements to users more likely to enjoy a particular business.

Plot 1: 10 Businesses among those with the highest and lowest similarities (score can be negative). A matrix of the similarity scores is plotted, values along the diagonal have been set to zero to emphasize the other data

Plot 2: A bar chart showing the 10 most and 10 least similar restaurants to Ike?s is shown 